My name is Tiffany and I am a Hurricane Harvey victim living in the Katy, TX area. I was unable to attend your meeting today but wanted myvoice to be heard. On the night of August 27,2017 we lost everything we had worked so hard to have. We are a family who lives pay check topay check so this was a devastating blow for our family. The water came in, in a matter of minutes and we were terrified! All I could picturewas the people standing on their rooftops trying to get rescued during Katrina. I didn’t know how high the water was going to rise and I couldnot keep my family in that house in fear of drowning in our sleep. We posted on Facebook that we needed a rescue that water was in thehouse. We tried calling 911 to get help. No answer... My best friend sent me list of numbers to the coast guard and still no answer... This wasa list of ten numbers to call... all to no avail... it was the single most scary moment of my life. We started reaching out to family members withtrucks. No one could leave their subdivision. The water was too high. So my husbands cousin reached out to the Cajun navy who had beenrescuing people all over Houston. They said they would come. Praise God!! Help was coming!! But when?? The water was rising and we hadto get out. Our neighbors were out of town for the week. We called them to see if their house was okay because at that time they looked safe.She informed us that their house was dry and available for our family of four to sleep for the night. So our amazing neighbors gave us a dryplace to sleep for the night. However we had to walk across a raging river that As our street to get there.
—is your house in? 
I'm just north of Canyon Gate. 
You are? 
I'm just across the bayou from Canyon Gate.
Okay. 
We are behind the elementary school, which also got flooded. 
I saw that. 
You saw that, right? It was a kind of _____ [00:00:18] the blue things going around it. We are just behind it. So you wanted to know the rescue part, or you wanted to know the repair part? 
More rescue. 
Rescue part. Okay, all right. So I guess it was—I guess we heard about that there would be a pretty bad rain coming, but I didn’t expect it would be that bad. So I think it was Thursday I—it was a few days already. So Thursday I went to store and pretty much everything’s gone. The water is gone. Yeah, everything’s gone. So I was like, oh, people is overreacting. 
So Friday it started raining. I had a lunch arrangement with a friend, so we even joked about it: “It’s just everybody’s overreacting.” And then we heard that the school is going to close, and we were like, “Oh, what’s the big deal?” So I think Friday it started raining. Saturday, Sunday it was raining really hard. And so we look at—I look at the WeChat and people—I think I looked at WeChat quite a bit, and then I have friends call me. They checked the elevation site, and they said, “Hey, your elevation looks pretty bad.” And I never heard about it. I didn’t know about my elevation until my friend told me. And they said, “That’s the website. You should go check.” 
I was thinking that maybe we couldn’t go out for a few days. I didn’t think that we would be flooded. So I cook all the food, so I was like—so we don't go out, and then we’ll just eat. And then we look at it online. We check on the YouTube. We check on the WeChat. We block all the doors, right? 
Yes, right. 
And then we also started moving furniture upstairs. I think that wasn’t until probably Monday. I think it was—so Saturday we didn’t think of it too much. But the water started rising on the street, so we knew kind of we couldn’t go out. I think actually Saturday my son still go out. My older son still went out, but on the way back they got all scared because there was a big, deep puddle of water, and they have to kind of detour. So they got a little scared. So that was Saturday. 
Sunday, still raining, so we check our TV. The TV was on the whole time. And we check online. We check the WeChat. And I think it was Sunday night, I think, it stopped raining. So I had a little hope that the water—at that time, Sunday, the water is already like in the middle of our lawn. And so the night it stopped raining, we thought it would go down. But Monday morning, when I got up and looked at it, it didn’t go down much at all. That’s when I got worried, because I thought it went—it stopped raining. It should go down quite a bit. What happened is all the rainwater from west, from north, come down to our area, come down to the reservoir, and the reservoir did not release water, so the water didn’t go down. 
And then it started raining again. So we did some more work. We kind of block all the weep holes around the house, and then we start moving furniture. I have my older son and the younger son. I'm a single mom. They were really helpful, so they helped to move most of the furniture, the furniture that is light enough for them to carry. They even carried up big, very nice sofa upstairs. So the whole second floor is all full. Then we kind of—we have a big Yamaha piano, and so we wrapped all the legs and all the dining table legs and all that. So we did quite a bit. But we still hoped that we wouldn’t need to go. 
I think it was around probably 6:00 or 7:00, I think, the lowest point of the house, the sewage water started coming in. So it smelled really bad. So I was like, it doesn’t look good. I don't think I wanted to stay in the house. The water is already kind of close to the front door. And then it gets above the front door. So around 8:00, I think, it’s above the front door, but it didn’t come in right away. So we were still thinking: Oh, maybe we will be okay, since the work we did. There was boats coming in and out. It’s getting dark. So I was kind of debating whether we need to leave. 
Some friends—another lady in the neighborhood (she’s French), and we kind of keep talking, and she said she decided to leave. I think I called a few neighbors, and I couldn’t get into touch with them, so I think that they are leaving already. Then we saw the water coming. At that moment, we felt like we shouldn’t stay. And there was a boat. Our street is like a dead end that’s pretty deep [00:07:13]. So we saw a boat going. By the time they come out, we told them that we wanted to leave. And so they pulled up to the driveway, close to the garage. Basically, we all packed one backpack, so my kids had all their backpacks ready. But I have my computer out, because I was checking stuff. At that moment, I didn’t bring my computer. I just pick up my backpack. And that’s actually the backpack. It looks pretty nasty. I haven’t had a chance to wash it. So that is the backpack. It was dirty. Then that was the only backpack that we could find for my to go to Boy Scout campout. So he made it even dirtier. [laughter] 
Exactly. Oh, goodness. 
So I only had that and I have one set of clothes, because they are waiting for us, and we are kind of just rush, and all the doors are already blocked with sandbags on the outside. So we actually leave through the window. 
Did you? Wow. 
My kids with sandals. They gave me the only pair of rain boots. They are very sweet. They said, “Mom, you wear this.” So it’s huge, because it’s their rain boots, so it’s huge. So we left the house in a big rush. I went to the garage to turn off the switch. 
Uh-huh, the electricity. 
Yeah. So then we left. So I have some pictures, if you want.
That would be extremely helpful. 
So, basically, they came from Brandon. They don't know where to go. So they’re kind of stuck here and stuck there. And we were like, “Oh, this is supposed to be a road.” Because you really don't know where the road is. But you can only see the signs on both sides of the street. It’s like, “Okay, so this is supposed to be a road. We shouldn’t stay in the middle.” Middle usually there’s a bump. Middle is the shallow water. Sometimes they get stuck. They said, “We need to go to the side.” 
Wow. What kind of boat? Was it an airboat? 
It’s a mechanical boat. It had a motor on the back. 
So they had to watch the prop and they had to keep it deep. 
That’s right. So we get out of the subdivision and we get on the street. At that time, I think the water is even deeper. We ran the red light. [laughter] So they were joking, “Hey, we ran the red light.” It was another family, the mom and the son. It was the French woman. So she said she was going to leave, but she didn’t leave until that time. So when we got on the boat, they were there. So we went and we saw the middle school, and we took pictures, and then we saw a big, yellow truck, a really high, big truck, and it was in the water for a whole day and it was dead. 
So we went some blocks north, and I think the water gets too shallow, so we got off and we walked a little bit more. There are people kind of helping us, carry the bag for me. It was raining. So we walked a little bit. We walked kind of close to—I think it’s North Mason, where there’s a bridge school [00:11:34]. It’s south of Westheimer. 
Okay. 
It gets pretty dry. There was kind of almost like a staging area. People with big trucks all came and they all parked there, and the people come to me, said, “Do you need help? Do you need help?” I said, “Yeah, yeah, yeah. We need to go to our friends’ house.” That guy is local, and he lives west of 99. He said, “I just have to come out.” He said, “I just cannot stay home and watch TV.” Very nice. He brought towels, clothes, like everything. He’s like, “Where do you want to go?” So I gave him one address. I told you earlier. He said, “That place doesn’t look very good. It got flooded.” The second address, I called my friend and they said they already host a family. The third one said, “Please come.” So we went. Even when we went there, there was a car stuck in the water, like right outside the subdivision, and that guy go scared and was like, “Am I supposed to go?” So I called my friend, and my friend said, “No problem. We don't have any water. Please come.” 
The husband actually started walking out of his house to come to get us. So this guy, finally he just gradually drive through the water and took us to our friends’ house. So we lived there for three days. Like every day we watched news, we check online, and we started to see that some areas become mandatory evacuation. A friend of mine was stuck in Canyon Gate. She has a one-story house. Her husband and her was staying in the attic. So that one night, I think it was Tuesday night—we evacuated Monday night. So Tuesday night we all tried to get them out. So there was a boat coming in and out. We sent out a rescue kind of plea on WeChat. 
You did? Okay. 
Yeah. I don't know whether they did Facebook. At that time, we know about that there’s a few Chinese groups that they have boats. They operate boats to rescue people. And of course, there are a lot of—I know that there’s people from Austin, from Dallas, and there are people from north, like South Lake. They have boats and they all came. I think it was Tuesday—was it Tuesday night or Monday night? Then they expanded the evacuation area by mistake. It was a mistake. 
Was it? 
It was a mistake. They expanded. They included two subdivisions west of 99. A friend of mine lives in that neighborhood, and I saw that and I know kind of for sure it’s a mistake. And a friend of mine, also a _____ [00:15:34], works at _____ in the flood office. So I send her that information. I said, “That looks like a mistake to me.” That was like 2:00 in the morning. I didn’t want to tell people, “It’s a mistake,” because that’s too much responsibility, right? 
Exactly. 
But I sent it to her and I said, “That looks like a mistake.” And she checked and she said, “It is a mistake.” 
Wow. 
But it was like 3:00 in the morning. I wouldn’t have wanted to tell my friend, “It’s a mistake.” And I thought that probably nobody’s actually watching. But at 6:00, 7:00, TV said it was a mistake. Then, later on, I found out my friend was packing, and some people just left Katy. [laughter] 
Of course, right. 
It was just chaos on top of chaos. And then I think it was—I think the rain stopped. The rain stopped, I think, Monday night. Monday night—Sunday night or Monday night they started releasing the reservoir. And so by Wednesday we kind of all went out, tried to get back in, but we couldn’t get back. Thursday, we couldn’t get back in. So I think it was Friday. I think Wednesday we tried to go back, also from the social media that they said there are trucks, the government trucks, the military trucks, that could send people in. Was it Wednesday? I think it might be Wednesday—Wednesday or Thursday. 
So we went there. And they staged at like Westheimer and Mason. But they wouldn’t let us in unless it’s like you have a pet, you left a pet there, or you need some medicine. We don't have that kind of situation. It takes an extremely long time to go there, because they pick up maybe a bunch of people, and they all live in different places. They have to go to different subdivisions, and then they have to find their place. They are allowed only like two minutes in their house, only two minutes. And they were following. If you pick up something not like life/death important thing, they said, “Put it down.” 
Really? 
Yeah. It has to be medicine or dog or something. So you waited for hours and hours to get into your house for two minutes. Okay? Then they have to go around the neighborhood, so it take a long time. So we couldn’t—we were not allowed to go anywhere. Then we met a couple. They were just evacuating then. So I believe it was a Wednesday. We were like, “Really? You stayed for that long?” They said, “Yeah, no problem. We lived upstairs. We even cooked.” [laughter] 
Oh, my gosh. Wow. 
So it was pretty funny. So I think on Thursday we tried again. My son was in line for a long time. Then we understand it’s only two minutes and said, “Forget about it.” So they went this summer, volunteer work. They went to church and they did some [inaudible] [00:19:30]. I think it was a Friday we actually checked this house. I talked to my friend in China. I was like, “Can I live in your house for a while?” And she said, “No problem.” This house has been vacant for quite some time. They are ex-pats. They live in Shanghai, Beijing and Shanghai, my friend from church, and I'm pretty good friends. I said, “Well, can we live in it?” She said, “No problem.” So everything’s set up well. 
I think it was September 1st. I believe that we moved in September 1st. I think it was a Friday. We lived in another friend’s house, where we evacuated. They treat us so well, and we didn’t have to cook. We didn’t have to do anything. Yeah, September 1st was Friday. And nobody go to work. Nobody go to school. So we had a good time. I didn’t have to cook. So it was actually almost like a vacation. But we know that we need to—and I kind of figured it would take a long time for us to go back, so we decided to come here. So Friday we moved to here, September 1st. 
So we moved here, and then kind of the reality kicks in. We think about it: Well, how do we go back? What are we going to do? Some places, it’s already accessible, but not my neighborhood. So people were talking about getting boats and all that. So it was—I think I started working on that. At that time, it was Saturday. I kind of talked to my friends and got two boats for Sunday. Saturday, they were already booked all day. The boats are booked. The boats for Memorial area. So you have to tell people ahead of time to book the boats, right? So I have two boats reserved for Sunday. And Sunday we are supposed to go to church. I was like, “No, I cannot go to church.” 
Sunday we have one kayak, one other boat. It’s kind of like almost a rectangular boat. It’s a paddleboat. 
Paddleboat? Really? Huh. 
Yeah. And then I told them that we need to go in, and ask whether anybody has a life jacket, because I'm just afraid because my kids will go. I asked about it, and one of the church friends said, “I’ve got a life jacket for you.” I think Saturday she went to Academy, no life jacket. And she went to Walmart, no life jacket. I guess she didn’t go to Academy because it was already closed. So she said, “I go in the morning. When do you need to go? I’ll buy it before you go. I’ll get it for you.” It was like, “Also get some sticks for me,” because I heard that some people get electric—
Yes, we heard, right. 
So we said, “Get some sticks in case…” [laughter] Was it Sunday or was it Saturday? Even just boats, you need to have a truck to get the boats here. So I ask a friend who has a truck to get the boats for me. Then Sunday we all met. I have two friends, two male friends, and they took my two boys. My younger one was like, “Hey, Justin, how about you just stay home? Mommy and Michael go ahead.” “No, no, no. I need to go.” We also get them the suit. 
The waders? 
The waders, yeah. So we also get that, borrow that, so they have that and the life jacket. At that time, the reason for that is I need to get my computer out. And I think there’s a few things that we need to get out. So they went. Even then we have this—our neighborhood has a WeChat group, and the people were asking about boats and all that. I said, “Well, I’ve got two boats. If you want to come, you can come.” So another neighbor come, who was waiting on the boat. We said, “We have to make two trips.” And at that time, we were kind of staging at the middle school, _____ [00:24:53]. Am I speaking too much? 
It’s great. No, it’s fine. Yeah. 
It’s just incredible just the—Fry Road, pretty much from 99 all the way to Mason, where there’s the water, the car cannot go through. It’s just lined up with cars, because people wants to go back. So it’s all lined up. Both sides of the road is all cars. And then the middle school, the back, the whole parking lot is full, and it’s mud everywhere. It’s mud. It’s just—you cannot imagine just now. It’s just mud everywhere, and it’s wet. All the cars, nice cars, covered by dust and mud on the wheels, on the doors. 
So we went there and unload the boats so my kids get there, get in. They went to my house. Then there are boats going around. There’s volunteers. 
And it’s a whole week after the rain? 
It’s a Sunday. 
And they’re still in boats? 
Oh, yeah. 
Wow. 
So it’s a Sunday. Monday we evacuated. So it was a Sunday. Then my—there was volunteers, having the boat going around. So I got on one boat. So he took me to where the elementary school is. And then, at the one spot that is really dry, the boat cannot go through, so I have to walk. Then I called my friends’ house. I said, “Hey, I'm here. Please come pick me up.” So they got the boat and—[laughter] 
Oh, my gosh. They brought a boat to pick you up on the other side of the dry spot? Wow. 
They come pick me up, and I saw people walking on the street, and the water is up here, up to here. And I wouldn’t dare to walk on that kind of water. And so we went in. My son already got the computer for me. I took some pictures. I took pictures of my house. It had the nice reflection on the water. And then I actually went to my friend’s house also. I wanted to kind of update her about her house, so I took pictures of that. And then we went back to my house. Then we pick up a few things. Then I remember something. I was like, “Oh, the food in the refrigerator must be bad.” So we opened it. It smelled really bad. We dump everything in the trash bag. 
So we did all that. The house, the water is out, but it’s all muddy. I had like engineered wood floor. It’s just dirty and muddy. So we left. That was Sunday, right? And then I heard that people is going to start cleaning the next day, which is Labor Day. So that night I was still thinking there’s no way for me to start cleaning, because we could not even get in. So I was like, oh, we couldn’t get in. So that was Sunday. And they were talking about it. Our church organized the cleaning crew. There was two houses that would be cleaned. And people from Sugar Land is going to help, and people from Katy would help. 
So I thought, no, we’re not going to do it. But then the Monday morning a guy from my kids’ Boy Scout troop contact us and said, “Are you okay? Do you need any help?” And I was like, “Oh, we couldn’t really access our house yet.” And he said, “Well, there’s another family in your neighborhood, and we are going to help them.” So I was like, “Oh, really?” And I was like, “Okay.” When we visit our house, we already saw mold in our couch. That couch was—the water is not that high to reach the top of the couch, but just because it sucked all the water in, the top of the couch is already—it’s a leather sofa. There’s mold already. So it looks—I know it’s going to get really bad very soon, very fast. 
So I was like, “Okay, then let’s do it. Let’s go clean.” So I called our church. There’s one organizer. And I said, “We are going to start cleaning.” He was like, “Oh, we don't have people because we already arranged all the people. Okay, I get some people.” So I said, “Okay, please get some people.” And I also talked to my friends who are in Katy, who’s already starting repair. And I said, “We are going to start cleaning also. Could you send some people over?” So probably around lunchtime people started showing up, people from like Bellaire, people from like Memorial area. They start to show up. At that time, we have to transport _____ [00:31:13]. My older son has—we kept the kayak. So he would kayak and take the people to my house. And my younger son, he has these big rain boots, and he pushed the wheelbarrow with all the tools and all that and walked along like people’s front yard and back yard and went back to my house. It took an hour to walk back, with another family. 
I was kind of directing people where to go, which boat to get on. So when the people come to my house, they didn’t know what to do, because I was not there. So they call me and they said, “Hey, you should go back. You need to tell us what to do.” And my phone was running out of battery. It was just really chaotic. They have those—some people has their own truck, really high truck, and taking people, and there’s a Jeep. I saw a few people that I know from our Boy Scout troop. They took some friends in for me. Then, later, they called me and said, “I need to go back.” I got one Jeep. He actually went like the back road all the way; just go around and around.  think he didn’t take me all the way. Did he take me all the way back? 
Anyway, so I went back. They already started cleaning. I was able to put a big cover on my baby grand. 
Oh, were you? Was it okay? 
People already started putting like a knife and hammer on the piano, right? So I was able to—I think it was a Saturday or Sunday I bought a big cover, plastic cover for that, so I was able to put that. 
How did you protect the legs? 
Well, you guys all should remember how to do it. 
And do you have a picture? Because I am fascinated by how people protected some of their furniture. 
I hope I have a picture, yeah. I bought a lot of trash bags ahead of time, because we were thinking about putting sandbags in front of the house. So I bought a lot of trash bags. So I had the trash bags, big trash bags, 30 gallon, and wrap up the leg all the way to the bottom of the piano, the body. So that was probably two, three feet probably. So put it all the way up and then tape it. 
Wow. And it protected 'em? 
Only one leg, somehow the bag was broken, but the other two legs—and also the piece that you step on when you play, we wrapped that, so it did not get any water in. 
Wow, that’s amazing. 
Yeah, so that’s a very good way. I saw people put bricks up. That’s not high enough. So definitely we invented that. [laughter] 
That’s great. The funniest one I’ve seen is—and “funny” I say in an uncomfortable way, because they showed me a picture of Dixie cups—not Dixie cups, but the Solo cups, those red, plastic cups, and they had gone around and they had put all their furniture—they had put one of these little cups on the legs of all their furniture, and they took pictures, and they told me that they were so proud of themselves for coming up with this. But then, of course, they got four feet of water in their house, and so that was pretty useless. But that’s interesting. That is so fascinating. It’s good that that worked for you. 
I don't have the picture right here, because I took so many pictures, my phone keep running out of memory. 
Yes, I understand that. 
So I have to kind of—
Well, maybe Yaguan [00:36:10] could look. Here’s our project. What we have is we have a dedicated phone that’s nothing but for our project, and so one way that we can do—we did this with someone earlier today. We looked through pictures, and pictures that you were comfortable sharing that might help us with the project. We can do an Airdrop and get them fairly quickly that way, directly to our project phone. 
—Airdrop cable. 
I don't think I can get it very soon, because it’s not on my—
It’s not on your phone? 
It’s not on my phone anymore because I have to transfer to my computer. I can look for some of them and find it, and then send it to you. 
You can also send to that email just whatever’s most convenient for you. It’s also a dedicated email just for the project. 
Okay. I think I probably could find it in the stream. 
Oh, okay. 
Let me see. It’s quite a bit to go through. 
So some of the images that we’re looking for is—whenever you were talking about—you took pictures when you were on the boat. You took pictures of your house. You took pictures of your yard, of how you tried to protect things in your house. Anything like that is really helpful for us. 
Okay. It’s quite amazing. 
I can only imagine. 
We have some good pictures, actually got some really good pictures. Not all of them are here. Let me show you one picture. 
Great. I’ll come over there if you want and just look over your shoulder. 
This picture is—I think it was on Sunday, when we went back, and I actually—this guy gave me a ride out, and he is from Austin. He’s from Austin. You can see there’s still water behind us. That was on the street. 
Oh, my gosh. That’s on the street a week after? 
That was on the street, yeah. 
That’s so amazing. 
Yeah, I think that’s—okay, this one you probably could recognize it. That was the paddleboat that we’re talking about. That was Sunday. My younger son and my friend—this is close to the elementary school. So that’s where we go back, how we went back. Let me see… 
Are they gonna be able to do anything with that elementary school? Have you heard?
I don't know. So that’s, I think, they took a picture when they went back. That’s the paddleboat. That’s a street. 
It still has that much water on it? Wow. 
That’s right. That’s our neighborhood, yeah. So it doesn’t—I actually took a picture, yeah, when we went back. When we went back—this is our house—that’s how it looked. This is how it looks. There’s still water in the house. I don't think this is—okay. That’s September 3rd. 
That’s Sunday. 
That’s a Sunday. That’s right. So September 1st we moved here. So, yeah, it does have all the—so I remembered. 
You did. You remembered your days well. 
I remembered the days. So that’s our—that’s September 3rd also. See? This is our front door. We have all those bags, kind of tried to protect it. But it doesn’t really help. When the water goes that high, ever time the boat come over, it would just—
The wake of the boat. 
The wave is just push it and then go back. That’s how it is. So it doesn’t really help at all. 
Oh, that’s so true. 
So, yeah, I think I can look through it and send you some pictures. How about that? 
That would be fine. Yeah. That sounds good. The ones that you have there, do you wanna click a few of those and just Airdrop them quickly, and then maybe help us with whatever else you think would be helpful for us? These are pretty fast to Airdrop. Have you ever done that before? 
Yes, I did it before. 
Well, you’re better than me. I learned how to do Airdrop as part of this project. I didn’t even know what it was. 
Yes, I guess I could. Yeah, I think my photo stream—that’s something that I don't quite understand. I delete all the photos, but it still show up in the photo stream. 
Right, but you can opt out of that function. 
Oh, is that right? 
It’s by default. 
Okay. So it still takes up my memory; is that right? 
You can go to iCloud after and just turn off that streaming. 
Turn off the streaming function, okay. Yeah, so that’s why I kind of—
So you can select a few. 
I can select this one. 
Yeah, so you basically go and select things that you want. And then, after all that, you click [Chinese spoken]. 
Okay, all right. Let me look at this picture. What is this picture? Oh. I don't know. Is that my neighborhood, or where? We have all the water, right? You are interested. Isn’t that—
Yeah, and then anything else that you have that shows what you did to anything inside the house to get ready. I’ll tell you another thing. You mentioned something a while ago, and I thought, if you had an image of that, it would be really helpful. You were talking about on Friday, meeting with your friends, and y’all talking about this being hyped up and nothing was gonna happen. That’s a very common theme that I'm hearing from people. And I even had one woman, actually in Cinco Ranch, who has a picture. She’s sitting there with her feet propped up and a glass of wine next to her. She took this picture, and she told us—she said, “I was saying, ‘Oh, I didn’t buy in a flood plain. Nothing’s gonna happen to me.’” And then she has this series of pictures that show as the water is coming up. She said, “I just couldn’t believe it. I just couldn’t believe it was happening. 
So imagines that help us understand the unfolding, of the fact this happened over several days, would be really helpful, anything like that. And then, of course, things that help us identify water that’s there, what it looks like when it’s real, when people really do need to be rescued. Things like are really helpful, too. 
I think the unfolding part—I'm not sure whether we have a picture. 
Okay. Not everybody does. 
So I guess—see, that’s another picture. That was—I think it was a Tuesday. It was a Monday or Tuesday when the repair was already starting. That’s the water on the street. 
It’s still there. 
Still there. So the water on the street was five feet deep, I think, at the worst time. See, that’s September 4th, so that was Monday. My friends come to help, and when they leave they get on the FEMA truck to leave. 
That would be really helpful. 
The FEMA truck, yeah. That’s my driveway, so that was still that deep. Water is still that deep. And I actually have a very nice picture of them leaving. See this one? 
Oh, that’s good. Wow. It’s just hard to believe. 
Yeah. And I have even a better picture. It’s good for me, but I don't know whether for—this is all the friends from our church. They are leaving. 
With the masks? 
With the masks, yeah. So, at that time, everybody has a mask. I guess I’ll pick a few. 
Okay, that would be really great. 
So this one… So you want a more scenery picture or more people picture? 
Probably more scenery. People can be in it. that’s absolutely fine. But I'm more interested in what it looks like. 
Okay. I think I picked five pictures. 
Look at those and see if there’s anything that might—
This one? 
Yeah. 
And then Airdrop. Here, this one? 
Yeah. 
If you have others, I would love—we’re trying to capture as many of the real images as we possibly can, so please feel free. You can email 'em to that email. You can text 'em. Whatever’s most convenient. 
Sure, definitely. 
Now, all my contact info is on the other side. But the stuff that’s on the back is dedicated or the project. 
Okay, I see. Great. 
Well, this has been incredibly helpful. I guess I just had a couple of other kinda quick questions. Did you ever call 911, or did you ever contact any official sources to get rescued? 
No. 
You just saw the boats and realized now’s the time? 
Yeah. 
Yeah, I'm hearing that a whole lot from people. Let me see if there was anything else that we had. So you mentioned WeChat. You mentioned possibly some Facebook also? 
Yeah. 
Especially when you were posting calls for help for other people, right? 
I believe so. 
SamEnergy_One on One Interview

Look it here. Okay. See, these are flooded, right?
Yes, these were flooded, right.
These all were flooded.
Yeah.
Okay. I was dropped off here with the air boat. We were rescued, and at that time I think the water almost covered two-thirds of the SUV. It’s here, all over the place. There all over the place, okay?
Okay. 
And this area actually, SUV fully covered. That car coming, like this one is fully covered.
Fully covered, and this was Boheme Road?
Yeah, and I live in this condominium.
Okay. 
Okay. There are 142 units, all flooded. Yeah, so on August 27, that was I think Saturday. Yeah, see here, ______[00:00:55] place is flooded. And still the clubhouse over there is still under repair.
Yeah, I bet.
Still not ready yet, okay? And some home even no started yet. Contractor and all that. It’s totally seller’s market.
Yes, it is. It’s really sad, yes.
Okay. So at that time this area actually happened to be the lowest level in this area. It’s all covered with water. And until I think the water receded on September 7th.
So ya’ll had it here a while.
Yeah. I stayed in a hotel almost 100 days.
A hundred days.
Yes, okay. Look here, this is the Bellwood 8[00:01:41].
Yes, it is. 
Okay. Bellwood 8 actually, from the deepest area all the way out, it’s more than 16’. It’s all covered.
It was all covered?
Yes. And it’s all above the bridge. So you won’t tell at this time—at least for one day or two days—you won’t tell. It’s more like a lake, this area. 
Wow, so people were able to get into your condominium pretty easily to rescue you because of where you were located.
At that time, no, I tell you, and here, you know, they know I came by. There’s a sign here, “You loot, we shoot.” It is here. The community here, “You loot, we shoot.”
Oh wow.
But the thing is that something fairly flooded is that just one street, it’s two totally different. Window, no touched. Window no touched. 
Just over there.
Yeah, window no touched. Over here, this area all the way to the south, close to bayou. Bayou is over there.
Yes.
Right there, it’s all covered. But here, this area, no, no touched. 
So the elevation is just a little higher.
Yeah.
It really was an elevation issue.
A little higher make totally different.
That’s what I heard.
So in this community, if you share with people living here they have no feeling. Just like I watched TV, right? I watched TV I say, even, okay, for example, like the current one going on in California, the fire? I have no feeling.
I know. It’s very hard when we haven’t experienced it.
But when you walk through the dirty water up to your waist, you know that’s real. 
Yeah.
That break my heart.
Were you in there whenever I told people that I was flooded when I was in the third grade?
For real?
Yeah. So part of the reason that I’m studying this—
Where were you?
The Clear Fork of the Brazos River in North Centra Texas. We had 5’ of water in our house for 2 ½ weeks. We lost everything. No insurance. And I remember walking back in and everything covered in oil because we had oil tankers that were knocked over. And so everything was covered by oil. Oh yeah, I understand. And I was young, but the other thing I remember is I had to go get a tetanus shot because everything was so dirty. And I remember crying and being mad that I had to get a tetanus shot.
Now you see, you’re great. You look great.
You know, I survived, and but no, I understand. It’s very hard for people to understand who haven’t gone through it. And the other thing is, it’s kind of hidden. Like you look at it from a distance and it’s hard to tell that a home was demolished, you know, that there was water in it unless there’s debris outside.
You won’t tell because it’s really, you know, most of the sheetrock inside, it all deteriorates.
That’s right, it has.
But outside the brick, the whole wall looks nice. So that reminds me, in Chinese ______[00:05:08]. You guys translate. Okay. It’s your part to translate that. ______[00:05:13] Okay. There’s a very—
There’s a very fancy shiny outside out there with a wall and everything, but inside of it is like a—
It’s kind of warn out. Yeah. It’s kind of decayed.
Yes, right. Yeah, I’ve been kind of referring to it as a hidden—the damage is hidden to an outsider who doesn’t know what people went through on the inside.
Yeah.
And it makes it hard to empathize, and it is a little harder for people to understand.
I know, and you will have some contractors, they even take the ______[00:05:52] to the profiteering. 
Oh, what they’ve done is terrible around here.
My contractor, you know, I kind of, I thought, okay, people usually go by 50/50, right?
Yeah.
Right before he started I give him one-third. I say probably this could expedite my repair. It ended up he never made his word. Break my heart.
And I’ve heard a lot that that’s the case.
Trying to find a spot here.
Now, how long have you lived in the place where you live, your condo?
Since 2004.
Okay. 
This is not flood zone.
No, it’s not is it?
Yeah, okay, that’s not ______[00:06:40]. Let me find a place to—oh wow, today is so full.
It is full.
Nice weather.
I think that’s probably what it is.
Then let’s go back to Randall. I think ______[00:06:48].
Yeah, we can make it work. 
Okay. 
We can even sit in the car and open the doors.
I just want to drive you around to a unit so you have an understanding about what’s going on.
Yeah. No, that really helps, and it gives perspective. To me, that has been very eye-opening that literally a block away isn’t affected.
Yeah, I know.
And that’s, you know, it’s very frustrating, I’m sure.
Yeah.
So when you were rescued did you have to—did you post any type of, “Hey, I need help?” Did you call 9-1-1 or anything?
No. I heard partially the brother—bro was sharing his story, right, in church. Actually, my situation is different from his. He kind of like he was trying to approach the National Guard and all that. And no—
You didn't.
I was so resisting because we live in the—the condo is three stories, right?
Oh, uh-huh.
Yeah, three stories, so the water came in on Saturday, on the 27th I think, in the afternoon. Yeah. In the afternoon I think about five o’clock. No, in the morning. And then receded about five o’clock, okay, so it came in just about 2”-3”, okay? And I told my wife, I said, “Well, it’s probably it’ll be gone.” At midnight, came in again. Start worry about it.
Really?
But I was still resistant to some food. Our kitchen is on second floor. Not like a free-standing house, all the kitchen on the first floor there, a lot more losses for everybody.
Oh, that’s true.
Why is it so crowded?
It is bizarre, isn’t it?
It’s so good, yeah.
It’s probably good for them.
Sunny afternoon.
Yeah, I know, sunny afternoon. This is California weather. 
It is California weather.
______[00:09:08]
It’s pretty nice, I know. And this is gonna sound crazy, but what we could do is literally just open the doors and sit in the car. It’s nice so that works too.
Yeah. And then the water just—and then afterward, after Saturday, on the 27th, after that midnight it never receded. 
It never did?
But still I was resisting. So we had been resisting until August 30th about eleven o’clock.
Okay. 
When I heard they released the reservoir. And the water, can you believe that, in one hour it’s just push out before probably one foot. We were all scared.
I know, yeah.
Even the southern, believe it or not, they have at least five or six air boats show up in the community, all volunteers.
That’s great, yeah.
Yeah. And then they’re just yelling to every unit, “Last chance to evacuate.” To my wife, “We have to go.” “Okay. Yeah.” So at the time of our rescue the water is at the volunteer’s waist.
Oh wow, and it came up that fast.
Yes. I will show you a picture. 
Oh gosh. This works.
I think that we can—I think probably have some areas in Randall’s. They have a small restaurant here. My kids all grown up in this area.
Have they?
Yeah.
How old are they now?
Well, I have four.
Oh wow.
The one I pick up today is the oldest one. He’s a young musician in Boston.
Oh, that’s awesome.
[Chinese]
I just talk about they—
Where they’re from. 
They’re from Northern China. I’m from Southern China.
Oh you are, okay.
Yeah, but after high school I went to Beijing for my college career. 
Okay. 
So I stayed in Beijing for about ten years. 
F2:	I stayed in Beijing for nine years.
Nine years? Oh, which school you graduated?
F2:	Communication ______[00:11:55].
Oh. ______[00:11:58]
______[00:11:59]
[Chinese conversation back and forth.]
Now you’re technical, aren’t you? Are you an engineer?
No.
You’re not? Okay. 
I’m a trader.
Are you? Oh. So finance kind of stuff, right, is that what you went to school for?
Import/export, trading. 
Oh, import/export. Okay. I’m good. Hey, we can pull this around, make this work. This is awesome.
Right?
Yeah, that works. So what do we want your pseudonym to be?
Hmm?
What do you want your fake name to be?
Whatever you think is proper. I don't mind.
It can be anything you want. Let’s have a nice generic name like, I don't know, do you want to be Sam?
Sam or—yeah, Sam is good.
Is Sam good?
It’s in Texas, right?
We’re in Texas, so why not, right? Okay. 
Sam had loud voice. I have a strong voice.
You do have a strong voice. It’s nice. Yeah.
Do you have the recorder on?
Yeah, I turned it back on, so we’re good. 
Okay. 
So we talked about how you were evacuated, or the start of that. 
Yes.
So tell me some more about they came into the neighborhood you said, and they were yelling that it was the last chance to evacuate.
Yeah, okay. Let’s continue stories. They’re yelling to neighborhood, so everybody kind of follows suit. So at that moment I told my wife, even though I still cannot—I don't know where I place my passport and green card. I cannot find it yet.
Oh, that’s true.
Yeah, I know. And my wife was so nervous. 
I bet.
Because she probably tended to think that it’s not that serious, ______[00:14:48] so serious. The water coming up, all that, oh wow. You know, the day one I was very prepared, okay, because—and later on she really appreciated that. Because I say, “Okay. They’re on the first floor.” We have a room. The water receded and then came in again. And I call the brother and Katy and okay, because the brother’s a civil engineer. I’m like, okay, he knows repairing about that, and then I follow his advice and I cut the carpet, throw them away.
Yes. 
I move all the stuff on the first floor, most of them, movable stuff, all the—everything, all my daughter’s paintings and everything, moved upstairs. That’s a great move.
Yes, that was a great move.
Save, a salvager.
We had the same thing, everything that we moved up ______[00:15:41].
I lost some cabinet, but it’s okay. That’s replaceable, but those handwriting is not replaceable.
No, it’s not.
My kids, right? So we saved them. That’s a great move. So but my wife not prepared, even not prepare a suitcase.
She didn’t?
She prepare like for—I have two little ones, okay? See here, talking about my four children. I have two college ones. One is in—she will graduate next year, master’s degree. She’s a violinist.
Oh, cool.
She just came home today. I pick her up. And the second one is in Wash U, and she’s a sophomore. 
Really? My daughter’s best friend started Wash U this fall.
Oh really?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, that’s a great school. Wash U, you know that, right?
Wash U?
Washington University. 
Oh, Washington University.
F2:	In St. Louis, yeah.
Wash U, yeah. But I have two elementary ones. 
Oh elementary? Oh my goodness.
I know. Sixteen years apart.
Oh no.
People asked me how many times you marry? I say only once. Still ______[00:16:41]. 
That’s pretty good.
Sixteen years apart. Okay. I have a seven-year-old and ten-year-old.
Oh my gosh.
So my wife prepare the suitcase for them a little bit. Can you imagine when I was vacate I only had one pair of shoes, that’s my slippers. Pick it up.
Oh, I’m sure that’s true, yeah.
Yeah. I walk barefoot through the water, same as the rescuer.
That’s right.
I was really touched by the rescuer. The water, come on, 142 units, all being flooded at the same time. And the waters, they not move. No flow. It’s dead water.
It was gross, right?
For ______[00:17:23]. Think about this. All kinds of disease, right?
Yes, right.
Even there’s a rumor saying there’s a few farm-raised alligator escaped.
I heard that.
And they maybe kind of floating underneath the water, you know?
Oh, that’s got to be scary.
And the snakes, right?
Yes.
Right? So but they just walked through the water. That moment I really touched. You know, my wife, when I was—before we were rescued my wife keep reminding me every time when I go down to the garage to move something. She always say, “Put the trash back. Tie your skin,” because there’s nowhere to find the boots anymore.
Oh yeah.
The rain boot, no. So put a trash bag every single time. And later on I told him, he said, “Why they didn’t care? We care.” 
Right.
All life more valuable than theirs? I mean, we all save the same. Why you care so much? So later on she would understand what I mean. I said, “At this time why you care about skin? You care about life. You don’t care their skin. No.” Time is the essence.
That’s right.
Right? You don’t grab the time, you lost the time. It’s there. Everything. At this critical moment, emergency, that’s time.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, so I wanted one pant. So I made my dear brother bought me all kinds of new. So see I’m a lucky guy, right?
That’s right.
I have a good excuse to get new equipped.
Absolutely, that’s right.
So that one is the—so I really touched by the volunteer. They have families. They have children. They just came by and rescue us. And they rescue one family after another with boat like this, unload it. And then from here HR people pick us up.
The HR people picked you up?
And drop us in the corporate arranged hotel for two weeks.
Oh, that’s fabulous.
Because I hadn’t registered with FEMA yet, right?
Yeah, FEMA wasn’t in town really and set up for a few days.
I stay neutral on FEMA, okay?
Yeah, I know. I think that’s probably the best thing.
I don't want to make any comment on FEMA. Yeah. But we’re grateful. We’re all safe, and no matter, you know, like HR, FEMA, brother and sisters or friends, whoever have done something to take care of us, you know, to go through this struggle or know that, people will appreciate that. I would never forget. Including FEMA.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely, yeah. You got to learn about how to appreciate. There are people who say—I heard people grumble and mumble. Sometimes I have discussion with my wife. I say, “Hey, tell me why you grumble. You deserve something? We deserve nothing.” We deserve nothing, really. I have no special contribution. I’m not a specialist. I’m not a special talent, right? But why you compare to others? You’re higher than others. Or you ______[00:20:59]. You deserve nothing. You receive this much. You’re grateful. You’re safe.
Right.
Another interesting is of all the ______[00:21:08] of all the—and I learn about the—I hate to talk about ______[00:21:14], but in reality you have to learn about—through the flooding I learn truly what’s called perishable, what’s called eternity.
What is perishable and what’s eternity?
Yes. Here’s the testimony, okay? All the neighborhood, 140 units, people live like—I live here for almost 14 years, right? I have lots of stuff hid in the garage. Why we didn't throw them away before?
That’s true.
And now all kinds of buried under the water for days. Terrible. We have to give it up, right, because kind of old, destroyed. And attic, that’s bad. Then instantly what I call the treasure you’ve been keeping for years instantly become trash. So what’s the purpose? That made me think a little bit more about in our life, what’s the purpose. Don't keep this garbage.
That is an interesting perspective. It really is.
I even tease with all my neighbors. I say, “Hey, you guys throw these away.” Mountains of trash piled, like piles. I know that’s terrible with that everybody own a mask, right So who created this terrible environment? Everyone. And plus the flood. If the water come in, all the garage is empty, and you don’t have this much trash. 
Yeah, you have a good point.
See?
So I’m kind of curious, so what—did you use WeChat?
At that time, yeah. Yeah, we have formed like some brothers have recovery group, rescue group here and there, have social media that some people, okay, join this, join that. Yes, but I only keep HCA. All others deleted because later I see so much terrible stuff.
Yes, there was so much later. I know.
So much terrible stuff. Let me tell you one thing which I cannot bear that anymore. One brother, we have two cars flooded, okay? The car that—I’m driving this one. I bought it. This is a 2008 Honda. The thing about it is how we—we’re watching our pocket. Our pocket kind of shallow now.
Yes, absolutely.
We have to watch it.
More than kind of, yeah.
So 2008, this is $10,000 car. And one brother which refer me to WeChat group about purchasing cars, and I tend to think that that group could be like, okay, we have comprehensive, the buying power.
Totally buying power, yeah.
No. People show off.
Oh, that’s terrible.
$50,000 Infinity. I say this is garbage. I deleted it right away. At this time there’s still someone talking about purchase an Infinity for $50,000 and complain still not a good deal? 
Yeah. No.
While ______[00:24:37] Red Cross is distributing $400 to each damaged home, and you guys talking about $50,000 for a luxury car? Why you join this group? Anyway, people talking about legal cases. Why you spend time on legal? There’s lots of nice stuff you can spend your time, like ______[00:25:00]. Invest my time on those true value. You think you can win the case? End up you lost your time. What’s the point?
Yeah. So what about—you mentioned a while ago that you had some pictures, you have some images. Walk me through when you took pictures. And if you have them, that’s great. We do have a dedicated place where one of the things we’re trying to do is capture real images. And so this is our project phone.
Is this for me?
Uh-huh. And if you find anything on your phone to show us that you would be willing to capture and send to us.
I will share you some. But I need to…
Okay. That’s fine. You can think about it. The main things we’re looking for are things that happened either right before the flooding happened. In your case, what I would be really interested in is did you take any pictures when it came just a little bit and then it receded? And so to get a feeling for what does it look like when you’re trying to make that decision whether or not you need to evacuate.
But that may not be so closely associated. You won’t tell because some others, you know, but some people, they evacuated right away.
Yes, of course, right.
My case is that I’m—
You didn't.
No. I’m the kind of—people call—lots of call me say, “This is hotheaded Chinese guys.” I’m very resisting, okay, because—
But you didn't live in a flood plain. I mean, you didn't—there’s a lot of why I think people logically thought through and didn't evacuate.
Yeah.
The other thing that I’ve gotten a lot of really helpful images is people who took pictures like out of their front doors or out of their windows of the water rising. That would be really helpful. Anything have to do with the rescue efforts would be really helpful with the phones.
I have, but you know, I’m gonna build like a hobby album.
You are?
Yes, actually, and I’ve saved lots of pictures.
You have, okay.
I’m probably going to write a story.
Are you?
Yes, including what I share with you, because I want people to learn about really to—through the flooding, okay, you learn about what’s real, what’s not real.
You do, yeah.
You need to,  like you let people know, oh no, not me. Think about this. This is supposed to have—you should know what’s the price for suffering, right? And what would be the outcome for suffering, what the lesson you have learned from the suffering. 
I think that’s great. 
You cannot just simply, okay, I got, you know, and I got recovered and forget about it. And to me that’s stupid.
Yeah. No, we’ve got to learn from this. We absolutely have to.
Yeah, we have to learn from that. We’ve grown up, right? So I keep telling my wife. I say, “Be life. If life no grumble, it’s not for life.” Life with grumble is that if you are brave enough to stand up when you stumble, you’re great.
Yeah, that’s the key, that really is the key.
Yeah, you’re great. But if you stumble and you just stay on the floor and waiting people to pick you up, you’re a coward. You’re a liar. Why you—you don’t know the meaning of life.
Oh yeah, absolutely. 
Lots of people, they don't think that way. Trust me.
Oh no, I agree.
I talk so many people. People talking, “Why have you not contacted so and so attorney,” all that. I said, “What are you talking about? I don't need that.” I really don't need that. My time is valuable too. Attorney grab my time.
Oh yeah, they do.
They grab my time.
So did ya’ll go in and did ya’ll pull the sheetrock out yourself?
Brothers.
Brothers did.
So much. Think about this. This is totally a new job.
Oh, it is a totally new job.
People have no intership[00:28:50].
No, you’re it, there is no…
You have no measure to back it up. 
That’s right.
I was teasing to contractor, said, “Hey, you guys make your money. I make my money. I’m a trader. I know my business. You know your business, okay, but doesn’t mean I can do—I probably can do a better job than you do if I spend my time here.” But I don't need that. 
Yeah, that’s interesting.
Yeah.
So thinking about your mobile phone in particular and the way that you used it during what this was happening, one of the—
See all this, all the pictures here. You want to come around here. All the pictures. I’ve lots here. Okay. 
That would all be incredibly helpful.
Yeah, see here. Okay. I’ll show you here. From the very beginning, see here, okay. From here. So we only have regular and diesel, sorry.
Okay. That would be helpful too because that’s reality.
See here, August 24th, right?
Yes.
Okay. We were not that much prepared in terms of sufficient food storage.
That’s what I understand, yeah.
Water too, because think about it. I live in Houston for 24 years.
Yeah, and you don’t live in a floor area.
No. I’ve been living in the area for 24 years, okay? So here.
So let me ask a quick question. One thing that I did with somebody the other day was they beamed me the pictures.
This is the like, you know, August 27th, midnight, 11:59. See the water like this. This is my car. The water is already here. It’s total loss. Okay. At the time of the evacuation the water is already covered the handle.
Wow.
Wow.
So see here.
Okay. This is really helpful.
See here, this is my first floor. See here. 
Yeah. 
You see the reflection?
F2:	Yeah, I do see the reflection.
The water is already there, okay, day one, see here. Okay. The 27th. The water came in again, okay? So you see that. So and then—and later on—let me see. See, look at it, and now you see right here coming in now.
Yes. Oh, this is so helpful.
See, 1:45 p.m.
Okay. Do me a favor. This is exactly what I’m trying to look for. This, what we—
And look at here. And then now we, okay, and water here, and we’re kind of desperate, okay, because there’s no way the water will recede. 
Yeah.
We’ll have to yield to it. 
Yeah.
So that’s the situation, is dark.
So that’s the progression.
I’m sure what I’m sharing with you, you have got a lot more than you’ve got from elsewhere, the information.
That would be super helpful.
Yeah, okay.
So I’ll tell you what I had one person do who had these kind of pictures. Yeah, that’s what you did with cutting your—
I cut it, and then see here. Look at the water. 
Yeah.
Higher.
F2:	Yeah. Oh, it’s here it is.
It’s almost to the handle.
Okay. Higher, and then look at here. 
Yeah. 
When we were rescued, see look at here.
F2:	Ohhh.
This is where I drive you in that ______[00:31:51].
Oh gosh, yes.
See here, look at this.
______[00:31:54]
Yeah, it is.
Same boat. Wow.
See here. The water is like this, in that area. We were driving ______[00:32:02].
No, I’m aware. I’ve seen some videos of that.
This lovely volunteer.
That was a volunteer who helped you.
I said, “Can I take picture of you.” They say, “Yes,” and they’re like that.
That’s great.
I got a picture, with his permission.
Yeah, and the volunteers have been great.
I forgot his name. And look at here. Look at this neighborhood.
Wow.
Look at here. He’s right there, we’re driving before you went into Boheme[00:32:28] like this, okay? So this is the situation here. Okay. This is my volunteer, yeah, the volunteer.
He was standing. He was standing there?
F2:	He was standing in the water.
Wow.
This is my two favorite one. See? They’re happy.
Yeah, I know. Well, they don't really quite understand.
Now I’ll show you why they’re so happy. 
Oh really?
We’re prepared. Okay. Look at this community. 
Wow.
Water like this. Okay. And look at this, “You loot, we shoot.”
I love—oh, okay. All right. I’m getting this—this is exactly what would help my study.
Look at this. The water here, 16’ 6”. 
Oh, this is so telling.
This is on September 3rd. The water is still so much.
Still that high.
And this is 15’—not 15, 14’.
Oh yeah, I’m aware. 
All the traffic blocked.
Oh yeah.
And this area used to be like five minutes which is like it could take you 45 minutes.
Oh yeah, to get a way home because there were still places that were still closed.
Yes, I know.
So there is a—
Can you just ask him to airdrop it?
That’s what I was gonna say.
See, look at here. 
Yeah. 
F2:	Uh-huh.
At this garage, okay?
F2:	Wow, yeah.
And all that, see here? Garage. Yeah, see all this.
F2:	Yeah.
Yeah, this is all my dear brothers, sister’s husbands.
That’s just so helpful. And there was so many great stories of people coming in to help. So with the evacuation pictures, what I’ve had several people do is they just select them, and we airdrop them to my dedicated project phone. And it works really fast and easy.
And then see I shopping around. I learned of all the… I’m a semi contractor already. I learned so much.
I know, isn’t that funny?
Deliver the refrigerator and all that so much. See here, all the picture. A lot. 
Yeah. So my study is only with the evacuation. So if you go to the top of your pictures, and if you just will click on the ones that are all before the drywall starts.
Before the restoration?
Right, because we’re not studying that. We’re studying the evacuation and what does a flood look like, and how do we get people to safety.
Look at here.
These are so good. That’s so terrible. I know. It’s just horrific, isn’t it?
Yeah. Anyway…
So do you mind? We could airdrop them right now, and then that would save you—literally it takes about three or four minutes for you just to click.
You mean the airdrop is—how do you airdrop?
So show him how to do that.
[Shows him how to airdrop photos.]
But all of those at the beginning would be really incredibly helpful. And I can assure that, I mean we have—I’ll leave you with a copy of the consent form. All of those would be great, all the way to the 16’ one and the “You loot, we shoot” thing. All of that will help us be able to characterize what a real situation looks like.
This is the first floor?
Yeah, all jammed on the second floor. 
[Continues selecting and dropping photos.]
I love the fact that you have your car over time though, the fact that it’s lower and then it’s higher.
Oh, okay. 
That would actually be really helpful. The more the better in terms of helping us understand what the complete picture looks like. What are these with grass and trees in them?
These are just—I think this is where—we can airdrop second time, second group, and I’ll take a look at it. And this is the community rolling in the water. You want to see the trash?
We have some of trash, but it’s important I think to get that message out there. 
Yeah, okay. I think we’re almost done.
And then is that 16’ one…
Yeah, it’s here.
Okay, yeah, that’s super telling in terms of…
[Continues to air drop.]
I got all of them.
It’s so fast, isn’t it? See. Now, let’s look at the—
Oh, this is when I was driving by, I take the picture of the bayou.
That would be great.
I was driving by it somewhere. You want it?
Yes. One of the things we’re seeing is that  having real greenery in the pictures in Houston seems to be a key predictor of it being a real picture.
Okay. Hold on. Row flooded?
That’s great. Any of those handwritten signs are very good.
Okay. Hold on.
I don't know that we’ve gotten handwritten signs.
This is also a sign. ______[00:40:40], right?
Yeah.
Okay. Hold on. I have another picture I’ll show you. This one?
Yeah, that would be good. 
I think this one with a media car here.
That would be good too.
[Airdrops more pictures.]
You got some incoming like this from other brothers?
We do, almost—yeah, we did in—
From other brothers in church?
Yeah, we actually just went over to one person’s house. I didn't write anybody’s name down so I don't know who it was, but he gave us about 1,000 pictures. And I was like holy cow.
I know.
So that was a lot, but you know, it’s the problem is we’ve never had pictures of this kind of situation because now everybody has these things with them all the time. And we’re snapping pictures constantly, and so it’s a real key characteristic that makes this situation different than Katrina or any other previous hurricane. So let me ask you a couple more quick questions. One is if you think about this mobile device, when you were being evacuated did you feel like it was important—this served an important function to help you be located or not?
You mean the—no, I have not thought about it, because at that time, this one, mine is not on where people can find me, where I can call people. Instead of people locating where you’re located. Never thought about that.
So you—it was more important for you to be able to reach other people.
Yes.
Okay. That makes sense. What about the fact it was portable, you could move it around with you, that was probably important, right?
Yeah, sure, but you know, these I think is supposed like the way.
Yeah, right. What about the persistence, the fact that those images are still around, do you think that that’s important?
Depends. It depends on the individual. 
Okay. That’s fair.
For me I think I want to save it because eventually I’m gonna put them together. I haven’t got the time yet, but I’m gonna put them together.
Right, and so that means editability, the ability to edit it and pull it together’s gonna matter.
Yes.
What about the association? What that means is—
You mean the homeowner’s association?
Yeah, is it important that we’re able to take images that allow us to be associated with other groups of people or not so much?
That probably not—it’s hard to tell, because actually you know, I think that most people may not have a moment to think that much.
That’s right, and I’ve noticed that that is always quite the case.
I mean, we’ve kind of loaded with all these kind of repairing and all that—so much distraction. I don't have any spare time to think about anything.
It’s so true. No, I—
I got lost.
That’s exactly right. It’s so true.
Yeah.
All right, last couple of things that I’m interested in. Since we do no generic information, can I get some basic demographics from you. Any of those that you would be willing to share would be very helpful for me just to—
Oh, you mean about me?
About you personally. There’s just four questions there I think.
Yeah, this for sure, right?
Yeah. 
It’s Asian, right?
Mm-hmm.
You can put down Chinese, it’s fine.
Yeah. We won’t tell anybody.
You want me to put the age?
Yeah, of you. Uh-huh.
I’m 52.
You’re young, gosh.
Really?
Yeah. I’m almost your age. My goodness. And I’m young, so…
Socioeconomic status, what’s this?
So which income category do you fall into?
Oh okay. Yeah.
Okay. And then the very last question I always like to ask people is what have I not asked that you think is important to be sure that we add into this research study?
Okay. I still don't know what’s the real purpose behind the research.
Yeah, so if you’re curious—
Is it convenient for you to share?
It’s very convenient. As a matter of fact, what you can do is you can follow the link to the National Science Foundation website. It’ll give you the summary of the study.
Is it like—is it a kind of routine research whenever there is a disaster?
So it’s what’s called a rapid. It’s not routine research, it’s very specialized research. And what they did when Harvey hit is they released some very end of the fiscal year funds because of the timing, and if people could move fast enough to write a proposal that was of high quality they funded several of us to do this research. What we’re really interested in is moving forward how are we gonna be able to figure out what a real image when somebody really needs to be rescued, what does that look like, and then are we gonna be able to train computers to go out and look for real calls for help to rescue people who really need it? And that’s fundamentally what we hope we’re gonna be able to get some insight on.
I think in that sense I think there’s a need for that, yeah, because my case is that, you know, when the crisis was approaching me I was not fully alert. Because maybe due to maybe living in this area for so long, nothing happened like that. And then from time to time, just like whoever’s story—China history, there’s a young shepherd little boy somewhere on the hill and then just joking to the adults who are working in the fields, well, you know, he was shepherding a certain number of sheep, and he was shouting to the adults at the bottom of the hill saying, “Oh, there was a wolf.” And it’s a false story. When the wolf really arrived, all gone, too late. Nobody’s—oh no, that’s not right. He’s joking. Same thing. 
So people maybe nothing, okay, it’s nothing. This is something in my mind. Let me tell you this. People enjoyed too much the complacency.
Oh, you’re right. And by the way, we have the same story in my history as well. We called it The Kid Who Cried Wolf. 
Same thing Chinese story.
It’s the same thing.
Yeah, I know. So I think that especially in this area—we call it affluent area. People kind of got lost with the complacency.
Absolutely.
Okay. So not prepared. I think that one is very important, just let everybody alert. Okay. Anything could happen any time to anybody. So don't just take—don't take any risk. Would rather be a little bit more conservative, be more prepared. Prepare with love, with care.
Yeah, absolutely. I think that’s a great message and something that we need to be sure that people are aware of. And the fact that you could lean on people that you already had relationships with, with your church and with other groups, with your workplace. The fact that those relationships, those organizations took care of you, that’s very telling, and I think that that’s gonna be the way things are gonna be in the future too. It’s not gonna go away.
It’s very important is that, you know, if you work for a company who appreciate you being part of the organization, but when you feel that you’re nowhere you don’t have an organization to back you up, you’re in trouble. 
That’s right. It’s an interesting concept. 
Same thing, community, same concept. 
It is exactly the same concept, and my technical area is called organizational communication, and so I studied these—
You need another student?
I tell you, I always need students.
I’m too old.
He’s here. He’ll be doctor in May, and I’ll need to replace him, so absolutely. I always do. And it’s fascination to kind of look at—
I’m too old to start that.
I don't know. I’m not too sure. If you have the desire I don't think you’re ever too old, but anyway I think that it’s interesting to see all of these organizational relationships. How many people did your company rescue and/or provide some kind of services for?
Houston office—the company has about 9,000 employees—about 400 and 50 families affected.
Fifty families, that’s a lot, our of 400?
Yes.
Wow. And they just jumped in and took care of people.
Yeah, right away, Everybody live in hotel, at least for two weeks.
That’s so—
Right away, immediately. They even pushed me, when the water first came in my home, the VP called me, “Hey, get out. Get out,” and I said, “I’m fine.” 
I know. I want to work for that company too.
Resisting for three days. And then when I called—then I called my supervisor, “Okay, wow, the water is really coming up strong, and I mean the tide is really up. I will go.” “You’re still there?” Yeah, and then the senior VP send me a text message, “Get out of there. Call 9-1-1.” Right after that I see the evacuation boat show up, the air boat. I’m blessed.
Okay. So you never had to call 9-1-1. So that boat took you to a drop spot, and then did you get taken—
There, and then yeah. And then we walked from there and then here.
To here. And then did you go to a hotel immediately?
Yeah, the HR people took us there to the hotel, right away.
That’s incredible.
They’re already pre-reserved for all the—they already count the people who already have been flooded, the homes, and they reserved the rooms. Once you’re rescued they put you there.
That’s incredible. So that’s very helpful to realize because one of the civil engineers at UT that I’m working with right now, we’re talking about writing another grant proposal. And her interest is sheltering, the way that people got shelter. And I think this might also be one of the first natural disasters where companies stepped up and provided sheltering and so that you didn't have to go to a mass shelter or something like that. And the number of hotels that people went into in this area was just unreal. So it’s very, very interesting. Well, I tell you, this has been incredibly helpful, and I’m especially grateful that you took this time after dropping your daughter off, and you haven’t—
That’s okay.
Faith
That we really are interested in is capturing what images people took whenever they were talking about rescues and talking about – so in your case in particular, I think it’s very interesting that you were thinking whether you should be rescued and also looking and watching what was going on.
Yeah, we were watching people get rescued. There were elders, you know? So, right across the street from us, big old National Guard truck comes in. And they’re, you know, carrying stuff out. But we, you know, like I said, we were able to get out after like two days. And obviously we were able to prepare for it. So, we had food and, you know, we had water and that sort of thing. Of course by – well, we knew to park with – our cars got flooded. That was the first thing. Our cars got flooded the first time, and that was – we were without cars forever. So, we knew the storm was coming. And my daughter, actually who lives with us, has a boyfriend who lives a little bit on higher ground, and there were ditches around. “We should park our cars over here.” So, we thought – so we did that right before. So, we were without cars for quite a few days. And then finally we went to go check on our cars. My daughter actually stayed with her boyfriend during the storm. So, she was reporting to us, letting us know, “Cars are still good. No flooding.” Because we were freaking out. So, – but yeah, go ahead. I can ramble on.
Yeah, that’s pretty amazing.
I want to just give you information. So, we were in the house for probably about a week straight. Because we were still concerned about the reserve. Because we were told we were going to be affected. And actually, our neighborhood was affected, but it was half of it.
Yes, yes. Was it in Katy?
No, we’re in Houston. We’re right off of Highway 6. Right where North Eldridge is. Where they got the big – yeah. So, we sit on our balcony and watched. You know, police racing toward it because they knew it was coming. And so it was almost like, you know, a big – I don’t know, I want to say like a tidal wave coming and everybody racing to get these people before it happens. And we’re seeing boats and, you know, all kind of stuff – the helicopters. It was like a war zone. And then a big Army plane flew over. And we were like – and it was so low. And it was huge. And my husband’s like, “I think they’re getting ready to jump out of the airplane and rescue people.” That’s what we thought. But come to find out, they were providing fuel for the helicopter or something is what I was told. So, yeah, it was crazy. It was like a war zone. I mean, we were –
So, did you – so you watched them evacuate people, especially people who were elderly or sick and things like that. Did you ever report anybody who needed to be rescued or –
No, because we didn’t know. We couldn’t get out of our house. Yeah. I mean, we were on Facebook. So, of course people in different areas – and there were people saying, “Hey, my aunt and uncle live in this neighborhood. I need rescue. And then people would say, “Here’s some numbers to call.” And you know, so everybody was being real resourceful. And I am part of a lot of the community neighborhood apps. Or just on Facebook there’s like Beg Barter, and it’s for this area. And a lot of people communicate on that, you know? Or, “Hey, I have no food,” you know? “Can anybody help?” That kind of stuff. And then people kind of jump in and help. So, it’s really nice. And they’re really helpful, you know, when – like in this situation, I actually – my neighbor told me about this – to come here.
That’s great. And you didn’t call 9-1-1 or anything, did you?
No, we didn’t. We thought about it, and then we found out that 9-1-1 wasn’t even answering the phone. So, – and we found that out on Facebook. I am totally a social media person. My husband’s not. But that’s how I find out all the information. Then I’m like, “Guess what?” you know? Or, “This is going on.” And I’ll tell him, you know? But yeah, we found that out on Facebook as well. And like I said, now I did – because they were posting for every – people who needed it, the list of like the reserve and different people that were volunteering with boats, and “if you need to get rescued, call this number.” Then they came out with an app that I actually downloaded just because –
Did you?
Yeah. I don’t have it. I took it off because obviously –
Do you remember what it was?
Oh God. It – no.
Was it Zello by chance?
It might – that sounds familiar.
Was it like a walkie-talkie app?
Yes, that’s it. That’s it. Yeah, that was it. Because I remember – because I wasn’t even sure how to use it. I was like, “This is kind of weird.” Yeah, why would you set up a walkie-talkie app? I mean, that was just weird.
You know, it was interesting. It was evidently used all in this area, and they were –
It was working?
They were pretty amazing what it did.
I mean, I saw the walkie-talkie thing and I would’ve figured it out. If I needed to figure that out to get rescued, I would. But I just had it on standby. Because they were talking about it rising really high. So, we were like, “Man, if it starts getting really high” – because we’re on the – we had a second floor. So, our kitchen, living room, dining room was affected. But we could live without that. Because actually from the first flood, somebody from my job had given me like two really cool like hot plate things that you can cook spaghetti or whatever you want. And so we did have that. And we were prepared. I did a big box and got stuff out of my garage that we were going to need and had the flashlights and whatever. Because we really thought we were going to be without electricity. And so that was pretty cool that we weren’t. And our cable – we have DirecTV, and usually when there’s wind it goes out.
I know. That’s so true.
So, I thought we were going to totally be without. And I was like, “Please don’t let the Internet go down,” you know? Because that’s my lifeline. And it didn’t, so that was cool. Now we did have a little bit of DirecTV – it did go in and out. But for the most part weren’t going – sorry, excuse my French – bat-shit crazy. Because I mean, when you get stuck in a small place and you can’t do much but go to the bathroom and come out, you know? And then you have no TV and no Internet, and you’re looking at each other like – so we sat out on our balcony a lot so we could just see what was going on in our neighborhood. And we watched – we had a really trippy night one night. We were out on the balcony. We watched people literally drive into the flood, like maybe for insurance purposes. Pull all the way up – because we have a little circle right at the end. We watched a group of guys in a truck pull up to the deepest part of it, open all the doors, and get out and walk out. And I looked at my husband and I was like, “That’s really weird. What are they doing?” And then we started talking about it. But like was it the next morning we got up and it was gone?
A2:	The truck was gone the next morning.
Yeah, it was really weird. But the water was still there.
A2:	I think they were just trying to see if they could get through it. And I yelled off the balcony, “You’re going to get stuck.” And he still drove and they got stuck, and they had to – I mean, the water was up their waist.
So, the cars were in the middle of the road just kind of – but people are crazy. Why would you even try? That’s so stupid.
So, we’re kind of curious. Since you sat out on your balcony, did you take a lot of – did you take pictures?
I’ve got pictures of things.
Yeah? One of the things that we have a dedicated phone. Brett, do you our –
For the pictures?
For if people are willing to share pictures with us.
Now you know, to me they just don’t show the whole dramatic part of it. But I mean, you can get an idea. Babe, don’t you have some too? I’ve got to find – OK. So, here’s our house. We have pictures of it – cleaning it out and all that good stuff.
So, we have anything that had to do with the rescue or the water rising. Something like that is really helpful.
I have us on the balcony taking pictures of outside water. I didn’t take pictures of anybody rescuing. I did do that the first time. Because the first time was our first flood. So, we were like, “We’ve been through this. We’re professionals.” Because we’re from Maryland. We’re used to snow and ice, you know? We know how to do that. We didn’t know how to do the flood. And we were like, “Oh my God.” The first time we were having a heart attack. And it was dark. That was the problem. Let’s see.
And we have noticed there is a difference there. And one of the things that seems to work pretty well is if people do like screenshots where they – do you know how to do that?
Mm-hmm.
Q2:	Where you can text just the original picture as well. Or we have AirDrop as well, which may be quicker. So, it depends on your device.
I have that too. I just never used it. But – because I’m so used to just texting everything, you know? Yeah, or posting it to Facebook or whatever. So, let me see. I’ve got to go way back. I take a lot of pictures.
A2:	I don’t have any pictures.
We do. I do. I have some. I don’t know if, you know, they’re going to be the wow factor that you’re looking for.
We’re actually looking for real.
Oh, it’s real.
That’s kind of the main thing here.
Yeah, because I did – I was trying to show my family. Because it’s kind of like, “We’re sitting out here waiting. Here comes the water.” And you know, our next-door neighbor – I’m getting there now. I’ve got pictures of my little mini fridge. That’s what we’re living out of. You know, it’s like – and luckily we had that in the garage. And we were able to bring that upstairs.
And you moved it upstairs?
These are not us though. These – I was getting pictures from other people too.
That would actually even be –
OK, so I was copying – because I was like, “Wow,” because people were posting them on Facebook.” So, what’s the number?
Q2:	So, I’ll give you the number. Here. Actually, I think – actually hit cancel real fast. So, hit that button, iPhone, and that should come right to me.
OK, let me attach some more pictures.
Q2:	Yeah, feel free to click as many as you want.
We do mobile detailing, too, and we did a couple molded cars.
I bet you did.
And they were pretty interesting. We had –
This is that phone number, just to make it things easier.
We – so do you want pictures of the house, or no?
I think that’s great.
Or would you rather just see the water?
Really not post. But it’s more, you know, before – yeah, that’s helpful.
Trash, OK. So, you want to see the mold – major destruction, or not so much?
Not so much it’s more the before.
OK, I think I know what you’re looking for, yeah. OK. Not the cleanup part of it?
Not the cleanup. That’s right.
OK. And I didn’t – we got a video of the – we got a video of the garage. Because it was – did this weird pumpy thing. Like so I took a video of it because it was like – I don’t know. It’s weird. It was like water was pumping out. But I mean, we had cement and the step. I didn’t understand why it was doing that. OK, here’s – this is a good one. All that.
That’s great.
Q2:	Yeah, that’s great.
Yeah, I did. I got more. Because once you could get outside and start taking pictures. OK, there’s our house. I just want to get them all in here.
Yeah, that would be great.
Let’s see. I have a lot of pictures of my house because I had to take pictures for insurance
Of course. Most people have those, yeah.
Well, we had homeowner’s insurance, but we didn’t have flood insurance. So, that sucked. So, we were able – because our roof got damaged and there was some water that came inside, we were able to get insurance help that way, which did help.
Yeah, every little bit.
Here’s all the donated stuff that we got. Does that help? Or no? Do you not want that?
That’s not really my –
What you’re looking for? OK, I just want to make sure. OK, here we go. OK, somebody posted that. You might like that one. Here’s another one.
Q2:	Yeah, that’d be great.
Yeah. Oh, I got a picture of the helicopter.
That’s great actually.
You want that?
Yeah, I do.
I didn’t even know I had that.
I’ve heard about the helicopters.
I tried to get the plane, but it was so fast and I was in the bathroom. And my husband’s like, “Oh God, there’s a big Army plane flying over.” Well, this is kind of when it was drying out. I don’t know if you want that. You want the before, huh? I know you said that. Sorry.
No, I appreciate you asking.
OK, here’s where we start getting some water. But see, it’s hard to see. But I’ll give it to you.
Yeah, that – that gives us some ideas.
And I’m kind of – I guess I’m short, because I’m just noticing – OK, here’s a good one. That’s underwater
That is perfect.
And a big hole in the road. This is a good one. I don’t know if you all have seen Houston where they have the graffiti on there.
That’s unreal.
Yeah, that was crazy. A bunch of cars underwater.
Yeah, that’s helpful.
These are all that I got off of Facebook. Now this is my neighborhood. This is kind of how the rising water was. This is that circle that I talked about that had all the water that they were driving in. Our house is kind of right here. But it ended up only – when they did the reserve, it ended up only affecting that area. So, we were able to go around and kind of get out of the neighborhood, thank God. We weren’t stuck there for like a week or a month like they were talking about. And that’s what our fear was – that it was going to – well, I’ll send it to you and then you can pick through what you want. And then here’s where it’s – see, it’s so dark you can’t even – I don’t know what I was doing. All you can see is like a water reflection. I had an older phone. This is my new phone. So, it was horrible.
Did it get ruined?
This is my garage where things are floating around.
That would be very helpful to see. So, you had to get a new phone also?
Mm-hmm.
That’s – almost everybody we’ve talked to, that’s the case.
I don’t know. It just started really whacking out on me. OK, here’s a good one. This is when we were sitting outside on the balcony.
Oh, very helpful.
And that’s my neighbors. And to the right of us, the neighbor’s car was flooding. His car started just on its own beeping and like the wires and lights were going. And I was like, “Is he in there? Is he trying to move his car? What is he doing?” So, it did that for like that for like an hour. That drove us crazy.
Oh, I bet.
That was the car actually. I guess I felt the need to take a picture of that because it was bothering me. But all of these were, yeah, nighttime. Because come nighttime, we were bored. And you know, we were sitting on the balcony. And that seemed to be when the action was going on too.
You know, that’s actually really helpful though. Because we can tell a little bit. And I have a feeling people are posting real pictures at night. So, for us to be able to see what they look like, that would be great.
Well, this I was trying to show my family the water line.
Oh, wow. That’s so interesting.
But I’ll give it to you, that way you can pick through. Oh, this is when we were driving by. And this was like a big field. It was a soccer field covered in water. There’s another night one.
Wow, that’s so amazing.
We were so bored.
Well, and that makes sense that you are.
It’s kind of exciting at first, you know, and you’re like, “Oh, look at all this stuff that’s happening.” And then after day two, you’re like, “OK, this is boring. I want to go to the store. I want to get back to my normal life.” And you can’t go anywhere. This is us – we got the bright idea we’d go spend $300 and sandbag. And it didn’t work.
And it didn’t work?
No. So, we spent $300 – because we got flooded the first time. I’m like, “I just got my kitchen done. I’m not doing this.” And so I thought, “Maybe if we” – because it really only at one time – well, we did the front door too. We did all the front door, the back door, and the garage. OK, I don’t know how that happened. I’ll go – it doesn’t – I’ll probably have to go through the pictures again. Let me just make sure – I don’t have to go check pictures again. Oh, and then we also had a tornado that came through.
Oh, gosh. That’s helpful too. That’s very helpful. I did hear about that. I’d forgotten that happened.
We had quite a few tornadoes coming through. OK, I’m going to AirDrop now. So, I’ve got two phones now.
Q2:	OK, so try the –
The first one, since that popped up?
Q2:	Yep, and then let’s see if I get the message. If not, it’s the other one.
That’s somebody. That’s him.
You have a bunch of pictures now.
Q2:	I’m accepting them right now.
You didn’t have them before. You have them now.
Q2:	We’ve got them right here. Thank you.
 [00:16:09] AirDropping.
A2:	I didn’t even know what that AirDrop was.
You know what? I didn’t either. A friend of mine told me about it.
My daughter showed me. But like I said, I didn’t – like I said, you’re just used to texting that –
That’s usually what I do.
Nobody’s usually sitting next to you that you – you know?
So, the other thing we need to do is we’re trying to capture kind of the essence of the people that we’re interview. So, it’s just very basic demographics. And it’s only with your pseudonym.
I gotcha. Do you want me to or do you want to?
You can fill that out. You are welcome just to click that.
We’re just doing me?
Yeah, just do you.
Is this one the –
Yeah.
OK. 44. And we’re going to do this one. Is that how it works?
That is. That is. I think the only other question I have is – one of the things we’re fascinated by is when people have their mobile devices, there are a bunch of different kind of features of the phone. And we’re trying to figure out from your opinion which of those were most helpful, either, you know, during what you saw people being rescued – and then do you think it was important for people who were doing the rescuing.
Absolutely.
So, locatability – the ability to be able to locate people?
Right. Oh yeah, that helped tremendously. Facebook was awesome.
Isn’t that amazing?
I was totally on Facebook. And that was most of my – like I said, the Beg Barters. And people -- they created like Harvey rescue sites. And that’s what I was on as well and listening to the news in between. Just trying to see what’s getting ready to happen or what we need to do. And so yeah, so do you want to –
And then reachability – for people being able to reach you? Was that important?
We didn’t have an issue. It’s important. It’s definitely important, because we were keeping contact. We were in a group message. I had a couple people from Maryland. My mom, my sister, because my mom is in Cypress. My sister is in Katy – Old Katy. Their water came like right up to their garage, but it didn’t come inside. So, we were all reporting and I’m like, “Oh, well, my water’s inside now,” you know? “I’m the one that got it again, dammit.” So, and then, you know, like, I remember 3:00 in the morning getting a text through the group message. A friend of ours in Maryland. You know, “What’s going on now,” you know? “Are you all having to be rescued? Get out” She kept saying, “Get out. I’m watching the news.” Because she was in Maryland the news. And we’re like, “Well, at this point, we didn’t feel that we needed to, because we were prepared luckily. I don’t think a lot of the elderlies were prepared, and had family that came and assisted them. So, yeah, but with the lists that people posted on the sites, availability was –
What about availability? Was that important?
Meaning were they available when we needed?
Like the mobile phone knowing that you were available to be reached – was that important?
Oh yes, that’s totally important.
And what about multimedia? So, pictures, that kind of stuff.
Yes. Oh yeah, we were – I was texting. “Hey, look where the water is now.”
And what about portability – the fact that you could take it with you – your mobile phone?
Oh, yeah. I can’t live without my phone. It’s stuck to me. I’m like, “Where’s my phone?” Like everything I do on my phone. I do all my computer stuff on my phone now. I mean, that’s how awesome it is.
It’s pretty incredible, isn’t it? What about visibility? So, in other words, was that OK?
Yeah.
And then persistence – the fact that things exist beyond the day?
I was totally amazed that there were actually people out there rescuing. I mean, I was like, “Wow, where’d all these people come from?” So, that was cool.
Did you ever find yourself using any kind of edit ability? So, actually, what you showed me and drew –
Yeah, I did a lot of that, yeah.
You drew that line on there. And then association – the fact that people could see that you were associated with different groups. Was that important?
Oh yeah. I’m well known on that. Because we do our business on there as well. And we buy and sell. And I mean, there’s just so much you can do.
That’s pretty amazing. So, the last question I always ask people is: is there anything we haven’t asked you that you think might be helpful for our research?
I think no. I mean, I think as far as the Internet and the apps and the – you know, everybody coming together, you know, and being able to communicate through that. Because God, if you’re just at home watching the news, there’s – you need to like contact people that are in other areas, you know, and know what’s going on. And you know, a lot of people warned us. “OK, everybody prepare. They’re getting ready to release.” There’s things that they weren’t really telling us on the news that people were finding out and knew about. And so, you know, that’s what I tell my husband. “Look, we need to do this. They’re getting ready to do this,” you know? Or just, you know, “Hey, my brother Bob’s got a boat and he’s rescuing people,” you know? “Call this number and we’ll come get you right now.” Or where they were taking people. That was another big thing. I mean, you know, even though we didn’t do it, we wanted to know these things in case we had to. And then of course as it started dying down, who was coming through neighborhoods to deliver water. Because we still weren’t able to get out. But they were coming with big trucks to, you know – yeah, it helps. it totally helps. I mean, I probably would’ve had a panic attack had I not known what was going on during the whole thing. You know, because of course, like I said, the news. They’re just – it’s just the drastic stuff, you know? And it’s not really right there in your neighborhood. The real, like you said.
The real. That’s great. Well this is incredibly helpful. I appreciate it. Let’s be sure that we don’t keep you too long.
That’s fine. No problem.
I’m very appreciative.
Hope it helps.
